# "Chodby" project - experiment inversion

Application for processing pore pressure monitoring during and after excavation
and performing Bayes inversion to get hydraulic and mechanical rock properties.


## Install and environment
```
bash setup_env.sh
```

This will install the Python application `invapp` from sources in editable form (i.e. `pip -e <sources>`)
the application dependencies including the `endorse` generic code package are 
installed as well. 

## Launching the app

The main script for the WPT inversion is located inside of `piezo/wpt_bayes.py` and expects one integer argument corresponding to the index of selected event inside of `input_data/events.yaml`. Pressure sensor data is read from `input_data/piezo*.xslx` files, measured event-specific quantities (flow rate, conductivity etc) are taken from `input_data/wpt_2025_04_with_flux_on_multipacker.xlsx`. Synthetic benchmarks script is contained in `piezo/synthetic.py`. Summary table data collection and creation is in `piezo/summary_table.py`. Comparison plots can be generated by running the `piezo/plots.py` with first argument being the chosen borehole and second argument being the chosen borehole section. The current working directory has to contain two `.idata` files for the corresponding borehole and section, one from 2024 and the other from 2025.


Python scripts can be launched as follows:

0) Create and setup the virtual environment
1) Activate the virtual environment
   ```
   source venv/bin/activate
   ```
2) Launch the appropriate script file
   ```
   python -m chodby_inv.piezo.<file_name>
   ```

For running the WPT inversion across all available events on metacentrum, run the bash script `run_all.sh` as follows:

```
qsub run_all.sh
```


## Structure

### [fitting](fitting/README.md)
Processing observed pressure data from multipacker.

### [input_data](input_data/README.md)

### hm_model 
Hydro-mechanical model of chamber pore pressures affected by the excavation.



## For developers

**Endorse** package should contain classes and functions with stable, documented API 
and relatively general usage.

**Steps**. Data processing steps could be developed in separate subdirectories as *callable* modules.
The structure is like:

```
def processing_fn(input_data):
    
    # some processing
    
    return output

def create_mock_data():
    return mock_data

if __name__ == "__main__":
    # individual step
    
    test_data = create_mock_data()
    result = processing_fn(test_data)
    
    # ... validate result
```

**Glueing** processing steps is possible through imports:
```
from invapp.mesh import processing_fn
```

**Functional Approach**
- Try to write **pure functions**, i.e. not modifying its inputs, 
  avoid methods modifying their objects.
- Use endorse.memoize (based on [joblib](https://github.com/joblib/joblib))
  instead of passing files. 
- Use small dataclasses, preferably using `attrs` library.
  If meangfull write methods that extract usefull data
- Prefer passing the class instance to creation of more complex structures
- After first working solution, go through and try to avoid code 
  duplicities, reuse the code.
- Write README.md in each directory. Summarize purpose of the code in that 
  dir in single sentence. Write single sentence to each file.
  If the file could not be described in singel sentence, 
  possibly good candidate to split it or do other code refactoring.
- Try to minimize dependencies. Put dataclasses into separate sources
  then plotting and meshing ...

**Documentation** 
- maintain README.md files for each directory
- functions called by other directories should be exposed through `__init__.py` and documented
  everithing else is "private" to the directory and processing that should be described in README.md
  





